    # eBird Journal
    #### Description:
    This is a journal I made that allows you to log birds you've seen and lookup bird sightings. It's a simple tool I made as my final project for Harvard's CS50P, which I took online. It's for birders like me who dislike context switching and just like having an easy-to-access lookup tool to use in the terminal for looking up recent bird sightings. I use eBird's API to look up recent bird sightings and also Nominatim's API to convert search queries to latitude and longitude values. 
    What I'm most proud of isn't the project itself - the program is, as I said, very simple and really not that impressive - but rather the fact that I didn't vibecode it. In an era where you can build something like this in 15 seconds with Claude Code or Codex, I took the time (a little more than 3 weeks) to fly through CS50P's Introduction to Python course, learn the durable fundamentals myself, and use my own problem-solving skills to make something like this. 3 weeks to learn APIs, File I/O, OOP, unit tests, and more. It's not about the program, Batman. It's about sending a message.
    You'll notice my code isn't great, it probably has plenty of code smells that I'm not experienced enough to detect. I acknowledge that. But I mean... it's pretty good for someone with just 3 weeks of experience programming (HTML and CSS don't count lol). That's worth something. Actually, I know, it's worth my integrity. I didn't touch the Claude prompt box with a ten foot pole while programming this. I'm a hero, and you're a villain, Shadow the Hedgehog.
    I learned a lot as I made this project. I really do believe the best way to learn any skill is to actually practice it - pure theory has its limits. I expect to learn a lot more and a lot faster as I build more things (*by hand*) in the future. 
    To use it, make sure you have Python installed first. I can't imagine you'd be here if you didn't. Secondly, make sure to look through the requirements.txt to download the listed dependencies with pip (just requests, tabulate, and pycountry at the moment). Now you can get to work running the program with `python project.py ...`. Type -h for more info on how to use the program. In short, one of four command-line arguments are available to you: log, history, lookup, and nearby. Type -h after each command to learn more.
    Log lets you create a new entry in a csv file called journal where you track your bird sightings (`python project.py log`). Four values are accepted: the name of the bird species you sighted, the location of the sighting, the date, and an optional notes field. Date and notes can be left blank (defaulting to today's date and "None", respectively, in the csv file).
    History lets you view your entries in journal.csv in a pretty table format (`python project.py history`). Like my body, the table is quite round and cute. Sometimes the table formatting will break if there are too many characters in a particular row. Not like my body.
    Lookup lets you see recent sightings of a specific species - just specify the species argument after "lookup" in the command line. For example, `python project.py lookup "American Robin"` will look for most recent American Robin sightings in the US. To change the country, use the optional --region argument and type the country's ISO-2 code. `For example, python project.py lookup "Canada Goose" --region CA` will look for recent Canada Goose country in the maple syrup country. A max of 10 results are shown. (Case insensitive, only names that match eBird's list of common names will work)
    Nearby lets you see recent sightings in a specific location. This uses Nominatim's API to convert your search query into latitude and longitude coordinates of your specified location. Just enter a location after "nearby" in the command line. for example, `python project.py nearby "Ithaca, NY"` will look for all the most recent sightings in Ithaca, NY within a 25-km radius, within the past 14 days. A max of 10 results are shown. (Case insensitive, for better results make your search query more specific. for some reason Syria doesn't work, either a bug or there are no birds in syria. call it.) 